## Iterating through Arrays: a Refresher

We should all be pretty familiar with arrays but before we get too deep, here's a quick refresher.

Arrays are high-level, list-like objects. We can use them to store, organize, and retrieve data.

For example, arrays can contain a list of strings, numbers, boolean statements, other arrays, and objects.
    
    // Examples of Arrays
    var strings = ['Apple', 'Banana'];
    var numbers = [4, 9, 18, 43];
    var boolean = [true, false, true, true, true];
    var arrayOfarrays = [[0,1], [1,0], [1, 1]];
    var arrayOfobjects = [{food:'chicken', type:'meat', flavor:'savory'}, {food:'apple', type:'fruit', flavor:'sweet'}, {food:'broccoli', type:'vegetable', flavor:'savory'}, {food:'rice', type:'grain', flavor:'savory'}]

Arrays can also contain a combination of the different types of data above.

Today we are going to learn some new methods for iterating through an array in order to store, find, retrieve, and manipulate the data it contains. 

Remember that loops offer a quick and easy way to do something repeatedly a specified number of times. Essentially they allow us to iterate through things - like arrays, for example!

Typically, we would use a `for loop` to iterate through an array, like in the example below:

    // Using a for loop to iterate through an array
    var food = ['chicken', 'apple', 'broccoli', 'rice'];
    for (var i = 0; i < food.length; i++) {
        console.log(food[i]);
    };

This code will iterate through our array of strings and print out each word in the array. 

Now it's your turn to give it a shot!

Let's do a quick exercise to make sure we remember how to use a `for loop` to iterate through an array.

#### Iterating through Arrays Refresher Exercise

1. Create an array called `fridgeContents` and fill it with at least 4 things that are currently in your fridge right now.
2. Write a `for loop` to iterate through the array and print the results in the console.

        // your code should look like this
        var fridgeContents = ['item1', 'Item2', 'Item3', 'Item4'];
        for (var i = 0; i < fridgeContents.length; i++) {
            console.log(fridgeContents[i]);
        };



While using a `for loop` is acceptable, as of ES5 we can do the same thing in a much cleaner and more legible way using built-in methods.

Click Next to learn more about built-in method for arrays.