## Introducing `.forEach()`

In JavaScript, methods are the actions that can be performed on objects, such as arrays. 

Now we're going to explore the .`forEach()` method, a great tool for iterating through arrays.

`.forEach()` is a method that we can use to iterate through an array in place of a `for loop`. It makes our code much more readable while lowering the chance of errors.  

Here’s the old school way of handling an iteration with `for loops`:

    // using a for loop to iterate through an array
    var food = ['chicken', 'apple', 'broccoli', 'rice'];
    for (var i = 0; i < food.length; i++) {
        console.log(food[i]);
    };

And here’s how this same action can be rewritten using the built-in `.forEach()` method:

    //.forEach()
    var food = ['chicken', 'apple', 'broccoli', 'rice'];
    food.forEach(function(food) {
        console.log(food);
    });

Can you see how we have replaced our standard `for loop`? 

We have attached the method `.forEach()` to our array, and provided a callback function. `.forEach()` takes a callback function as a parameter and this function will be called on each element of an array, always in ascending order.

When we use the `.forEach()` method, we pass a variable into our function representing the data we wish to retrieve, or the current value. In the example above, this variable is named `food`. We pass this variable into our function and then `console.log()` its value, which is the value of the item in the array.

The callback function you provide can take a few arguments. Let's take a quick look at them:

+ currentValue - The value of the current element being processed in the array. 
+ index - The index of the current element being processed in the array. 
+ array - The array that `.forEach()` is being applied to.

You can find out more about `.forEach()` by [looking through the documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/forEach).

For now, we are only going to focus on providing the currentValue to our callback function.

Ok, now you give it a try!

#### `.forEach()` Exercise

In the code editor you should see the `for loop` you just wrote:

    //var fridgeContents = ['item1', 'Item2', 'Item3', 'Item4'];
    for (var i = 0; i < fridgeContents.length; i++) {
        console.log(fridgeContents[i]);
    };

1. Take the `for loop` you just made and convert it using the `.forEach()`  method. Remember to provide a variable to your callback! It can be any word you like, but let’s use `food` for now.

        // your code should look like this
        var fridgeContents = ['item1', 'Item2', 'Item3', 'Item4'];
        fridgeContents.forEach(function(food) {
            console.log(food);
        });

Take a moment and look at how the `.forEach()` method is much cleaner and nicer to read than a `for loop`.

There are a lot of cool methods for arrays, and they all tend to make life a little easier. Let's go through some more of them! 

In the next section, we will begin our final project for this course, making a recipe generator to help us build a recipe for a party. As we do this we will use and become familiar with even more built-in methods to use with arrays.

Sounds fun doesn't it?

When you’re ready, click Next to continue.