## Recipe Generator
It's time to build a Recipe Generator!

You are having a party and are coming up with a recipe based on ingredients your guests bring for the occasion. The following array contains objects that represent the ingredients your guests said they are planning to bring over. Each object also contains some key information about that ingredient, including type and flavor.

    // Array of guestFoods
    var guestFoods = [
        {food:'chicken', type:'meat', flavor:'savory'},
        {food:'apple', type:'fruit', flavor:'sweet'},
        {food:'broccoli', type:'vegetable', flavor:'savory'},
        {food:'rice', type:'grain', flavor:'savory'},
    ]

You also have a bunch of ingredients in your fridge that you plan to use. Before we get too far into making a recipe, let's make sure we are including these items in our planning.

#### Array of Objects Refresher

1. The array above is already in your workspace. Let’s create a similar one right below it. Title your new array `myFoods` and include in it 4 objects representing some of your favorite foods to have on hand.  Make sure to include the same properties as the objects in our existing array, including `food`, `type`, and `flavor`.

        // your array might look like this
        var myFoods = [  
        {food:'beef', type:'meat', flavor:'savory'},  
        {food:'pear', type:'fruit', flavor:'sweet'},  
        {food:'kale', type:'vegetable', flavor:'savory'},  
        {food:'potato', type:'starch', flavor:'savory'},  
        ]

Awesome job.

Click Next to continue.