## Recipe Generator: Wrapping it Up

Now we have a Recipe Generator! Well done!

Our Recipe Generator is pretty nifty. It can combine lists of foods, filter out particular types of ingredients, and modifies the flavors of the resulting recipe.

The final code should be in your editor and it should look something like this:

    //provided array
    var guestFoods = [  
        {food:'chicken', type:'meat', flavor:'savory'},  
        {food:'apple', type:'fruit', flavor:'sweet'},  
        {food:'broccoli', type:'vegetable', flavor:'savory'},  
        {food:'rice', type:'starch', flavor:'savory'},  
    ]

    //user array (they make this)
    var myFoods = [  
        {food:'beef', type:'meat', flavor:'savory'},  
        {food:'pear', type:'fruit', flavor:'sweet'},  
        {food:'kale', type:'vegetable', flavor:'savory'},  
        {food:'potato', type:'starch', flavor:'savory'},  
    ]

    //using .concat() to combine your array with the provided array, creating a new array
    var allFoods = guestFoods.concat(myFoods);  
    console.log(allFoods);
    
    var sortedType = 'meat'; // representing the type we wish to remove
    var sortedFlavor = 'sweet'; // representing the flavor we wish to cut back on

    // using .filter() to create a new array of all foods that do not equal the sortedType
    var ingredients = allFoods.filter(function(food){    
      return food.type != sortedType; // 
    });  
    
    // using .findIndex() to locate the first instance of the sortedFlavor in ingredients
    flavorIndex = ingredients.findIndex(function(food) {
      return food.flavor == sortedFlavor;
    });

    // using .splice() to remove the first instance of the sortedFlavor from ingredients
    ingredients.splice(flavorIndex, 1); 

    // using .splice() to remove another random ingredient
    var sortedItem = Math.floor((Math.random() * ingredients.length  - 1));
    ingredients.splice(sortedItem, 1);

    // using .map() to add qauntites
    var recipe = ingredients.map(function(food) {
       return Math.ceil((Math.random() * 2)) + " " + food.food ;
    });

    console.log(recipe); // console logging the final recipe

At the moment our recipe generator is designing a dish that doesn't include meat and isn't too sweet.  However, if we change the `sortedType` and `sortedFlavor` variables we can change the type of dish that we are creating.

Go ahead and give it a try. Change `sortedType` to 'fruit' and `sortedFlavor` to 'savory'. Apply your changes and see what happens!

Your recipe changed pretty dramatically, didn't it?  You could keep doing this process, coming up with a new recipe each time. Your party is gonna be full of some amazing original recipes and dishes. Great job!

You made this awesome Recipe Generator all while learning about built-in methods to iterate through an array. 

Click Next to continue.